Add multichannel communications for the marketing team (#4679)
kubernetes/community: communication/marketing-team/multichannel-communications.md

# Multichannel communications

The goal of this is to provide a clearer way for community members to share and consume Kubernetes information.

## Motive
Our motive is as follows:

* Provide all Kubernetes contributors with a dependable experience of communication to and from the project

> * Find ways of adding our human touch to potentially overwhelming quantities of information

Reviewer: I absolutely love this. :blue_heart:

* Provide clear expectations on what’s important, urgent, or otherwise
* Build process like we build Kubernetes, so that our contributors understands it, and it works well at scale

## Outbound and inbound communications

All outbound communications will have a single source of truth in kubernetes-dev@googlegroups.com. 

Justification for this canonical location:
* Per 2018 and 2019 survey results, it has grown in popularity as the one place to check for contributor news
* Highlighted in the contributor guide, SIG READMEs, governance documentation, and many other places

All other communication channels will point to that canonical location because we want to:

> * avoid having multiple places with the same information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Avoid having many places with partial information
* Avoid community member's needing to follow multiple places
```

Nit. That's not quite true: we're fine with repeat information, but not incomplete information everywhere. Adjusting.

> * avoid confusion on where to get the right information
> * create an easier process for information sharing

Reviewer: Nit - consistent capitalization 

```suggestion
* Avoid confusion on where to get the right information
* Create an easier process for information sharing
```

## Mapping Type to Tier

We have identified four (4) different tiers of information:

* Action Required

>     * Participation by contributors is required
>     * Example 1: The Contributor Survey

Reviewer: The story I tell myself is that these examples aren't technically required, but they're urgent for those who care to participate. Reframing that, it might be fair to say: 

```suggestion
    * Participation is critical to the Kubernetes project and has a firm due date 
    * Example 1: Contributor Survey responses are due by $date
```

    * Example 2: Code freeze is at $date, get your code in!
        * Other release information should go through the release team
* Priority Information

>     * Critical information regarding the project's sustainability

Reviewer: I think it's slightly more specific. Idea: 

```suggestion
    * Critical information to productive participation and community sustainability
```

>     * Example 1: Voting in the steering committee election

Reviewer: Based on the classification, we may consider voting an Action Required item since it's actionable and due by a certain date. Maybe: 

```suggestion
    * Example 1: Updates on an upcoming steering committee election
```

>     * Example 2: Changes in workflows, issue triaging, etc

Reviewer: Perfect example 👍

* Feedback Appreciated

>     * When participation is helpful, but not required by everyone in order to be successful

Reviewer: Perfect 👍

    * Example: Kubernetes Enhancement Proposals (KEPs)

> * Important Information
>     * When we want others to see new updates, but it does not necessarily have an action item

Reviewer: I'm getting snagged on the question if people will remember the difference between `Priority Information` and `Important Information`. I don't like the pedantic arguments it may lead to. Is there a way to give this more of a lighter tone?

```suggestion
* Updates
    * Information that is not urgent or priority, but will be interesting to others and worthwhile to highlight
```

Other ideas:

* Noteworthy
* In case you missed it (ICYMI)
* kgossip (please don't choose this)
* Did you know
* News

    * Example: The monthly community & mentors meeting schedule

Based on these tiers, communication will flow through different channels and may be repeated as necessary.

## Channels of communication

> These channels will be used for written communication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These channels will be used for written communication and tips for using them effectively:
```

* kubernetes-dev@googlegroups.com
    * Single source of truth
    * Make sure you're not burying the lead, action items should be clearly stated
* Slack
    * Short blurb in related channels (see below) about the information on k-dev, linking to the canonical post
* Discourse
    * Short blurb in the related category about the information on k-dev, linking to the canonical post
* Twitter

>     * Firehose of information, to be used for close to everything

Reviewer: Twitter is unique in the recommended frequency.

```suggestion
    * Fire hose of information in 280 characters or fewer; items can be covered more than once
```

## Slack channels to be used

As Slack is a massive workspace for us it can sometimes be hard to know exactly where to put information. Here is the current list of contributor-focused channsl that we will post information to:

* #contributor-summit
* #meet-our-contributors
* #chairs-and-techleads

Regional channels:

* emea-dev (EMEA)
* in-dev (India)
* jp-dev (Japan)
* cn-dev (China)
* kr-dev (Korea)
* aus-nz-dev (Australia & New Zealand)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To find SIG-specific channels, check the Contact column in the [SIG list](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-list.md)
```

## Questions?

> Reach out to the [marketing team](README.md)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have a question about what's written here or something else? Reach out to the [marketing team](README.md)!
```
